Hi again. Siamese networks
have a special type
of architecture.
They have two
identical sub-networks
which are merged together
through a disk layer to produce
a final output or its
similarity score.
I like to think of these
two sub-networks as
sister-networks
which come together
to produce a similarity score.
This is a model architecture
for a Siamese network.
Note that the architecture
presented here is
just an example.
Not all Siamese networks will be
designed to contain LSTMs.
On the left, you have
two inputs which
represents Question
1 and Question 2.
You will take each question,
transform it into an
embedding and then you'll run
the embedding through
an LSTM layer
to model the questions meaning.
Each LSTM outputs a vector.
In this architecture, you
have two identical sub-networks.
One for Question 1 and the
second for Question 2.
An important note here is that
the sub-networks share
identical parameters.
That is the learned parameters of
each sub-network are
exactly the same.
So you actually
only need to train
one sets of weights, not two.
Then given the two
outputs vectors,
one corresponding
to each question,
find their cosine similarity.
Recall that the
cosine similarity is
a measure of similarity
between two vectors.
When two vectors point generally
in the same direction,
the cosine of the angle
between them is near one.
For vectors that point
in opposite directions,
the cosine of the angle
between them is minus one.
If that sounds
unfamiliar don't worry.
Right now you just
need to know that
the cosine similarity tells
you how similar two vectors are.
In this case, it tells
you how similar the
two questions are.
The cosine similarity gives
the Siamese networks prediction,
denoted here by the
variable y-hat,
which will be a value between
minus one and positive one.
If y-hat is less than or
equal to some threshold,
tau, then you will say that
the input questions
are different.
If y-hat is greater than tau,
then you will say that
they are the same.
The threshold tau is a parameter
that you will choose
based on how often you
want to interpret
cosine similarity to
indicate that two questions
are similar or not.
A higher threshold means that
only very similar sentences
will be considered similar.
If you think of this
process as a series of
steps you take to get from
your inputs to your outputs,
it would go something like this;
you start with a model
architecture for
a Siamese network made up of
two identical sub-networks.
In this case, your
inputs are questions
that you feed into
each sub-network
and each question
gets transformed into
an embedding and pass
through an LSTM layer.
Then you take the outputs of
each of the sub-networks and
compare them using cosine
similarity to get your y-hat.
After seeing the
model architecture,
I'll start talking about
different cost functions you can
use for this type
of architecture.